What Is Machine Learning

Why Use Machine Learning

Examples of Applications
  Analyzing images of products on a production line to automatically classify them
    This is image classification, typically performed using convolutional neural networks.

  Detecting tumors in brain scans
    This is semantic segmentation,
    where each pixel in the image is classified (as we want to determine the exact location and shape of tumors),
    typically using CNNs as well.

    Automatically classifying news articles
    This is natural language processing (NLP),
    and more specifically text classification,
    which can be tackled using recurrent neural networks (RNNs), CNNs, or Transformers.

    Automatically flagging offensive comments on discussion forums
      This is also text classification, using the same NLP tools.

    Summarizing long documents automatically
      This is a branch of NLP called text summarization, again using the same tools.

    Creating a chatbot or a personal assistant
      This involves many NLP components,
      including natural language understanding (NLU) and question-answering modules.

    Forecasting your company’s revenue next year, based on many performance metrics
      This is a regression task (i.e., predicting values)
      that may be tackled using any regression model,
      such as a Linear Regression or Polynomial Regression model,
      a regression SVM,
      a regression Random Forest,
      or an artificial neural network.
      If you want to take into account sequences of past performance metrics,
      you may want to use RNNs, CNNs, or Transformers.

    Making your app react to voice commands
      This is speech recognition, which requires processing audio samples:
      since they are long and complex sequences,
      they are typically processed using RNNs, CNNs, or Transformers

    Detecting credit card fraud
      This is anomaly detection

    Segmenting clients based on their purchases so that you can design a different marketing strategy for each segment
      This is clustering

    Representing a complex, high-dimensional dataset in a clear and insightful diagram
      This is data visualization, often involving dimensionality reduction techniques

    Recommending a product that a client may be interested in, based on past purchases
      This is a recommender system.
      One approach is to feed past purchases (and other information about the client) to an artificial neural network,
      and get it to output the most likely next purchase.
      This neural net would typically be trained on past sequences of purchases across all clients.

    Building an intelligent bot for a game
      This is often tackled using Reinforcement Learning,
      which is a branch of Machine Learning that trains agents (such as bots) to pick the actions that will maximize their rewards over time
      (e.g., a bot may get a reward every time the player loses some life points),
      within a given environment (such as the game). The famous AlphaGo program that beat the world champion at the game of Go was built using RL.


Types of Machine Learning Systems
  Supervised/Unsupervised Learning
    SUPERVISED LEARNING
    UNSUPERVISED LEARNING
    SEMISUPERVISED LEARNING
    REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
  Batch and Online Learning
    BATCH LEARNING
    ONLINE LEARNING
  Instance-Based Versus Model-Based Learning
    INSTANCE-BASED LEARNING
    MODEL-BASED LEARNING

Main Challenges of Machine Learning
  Insufficient Quantity of Training Data
  Nonrepresentative Training Data
  Poor-Quality Data
  Irrelevant Features
  Overfitting the Training Data
  Underfitting the Training Data
  Stepping Back

Testing and Validating
  Hyperparameter Tuning and Model Selection
  Data Mismatch

Exercises
